Complete fabric-e2e-rag workshop (#101)
microsoft/moaw: workshops/fabric-e2e-rag/workshop.md

3. Question Answering Pipeline: Learn how to retrieve relevant document based on the user’s question and provide the answer using [Langchain](https://python.langchain.com/en/latest/index.html#).

To get an indepth understanding of the RAG framework, refer to [this workshop](https://moaw.dev/workshop/gh:azure-samples/azure-openai-rag-workshop/base/docs/)

## Prerequisites

To follow along with this work begin by Right-click or `Ctrl + Click` on the button below to open the Azure Portal in a new tab and begin deployment of the necessary resources.

[![Deploy to Azure](https://aka.ms/deploytoazurebutton)](https://portal.azure.com/#create/Microsoft.Template/uri/https%3A%2F%2Fraw.githubusercontent.com%2Fmicrosoft%2moaw%2Fmain.json)

This deploys the following resources:
1. Azure OpenAI Service
2. Azure AI Search
3. Azure AI Services
4. Azure Key Vault

> 

Reviewer: It would be great to include a schema here

<div class="info" data-title="Note">
  

>   > The Azure Open AI deployment also includes the deployment of the ***gpt-4*** and ***text-embedding-ada-002 models*** 

Reviewer: `text-embedding-ada-002` is already included in Azure AI Services for Fabric. Is there a way to use it instead of deploying it on Azure AI Services?

</div>

---

# Loading and Preprocessing PDF Documents
In this section, we'll load the PDF document into a spark dataframe then read the documents using the Azure AI Document Intelligence in Azure AI Services. 

> 

Reviewer: We may present the substeps in a bullet list for more clarity?

After extracting the text from the PDF documents, we'll use SynapseML to split the documents into chunks. The document is split into chunks to allow for more granular representation and processing of the document content.

> To begin with [create a Lakehouse](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/fabric/data-engineering/tutorial-build-lakehouse#create-a-lakehouse?WT.mc_id=data-114676-jndemenge) in your Microsoft Fabric workspace. Next in the Data Engineering workload create a new Notebook to continue.

Reviewer: I would detail these steps, with screenshots directly here, without requiring the learner to go to another documentation page

We'll then need to install the necessary libraries. We'll use the [semantic-kernel](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/semantic-kernel/overview?WT.mc_id=data-114676-jndemenge) library to build the RAG application with models from Azure OpenAI. 

Copy the following code into a new cell and run it to install the libraries.

```python
%pip install --quiet semantic-kernel
```

> Next we'll need to provide the keys for Azure AI Services and Azure OpenAI to access the respective services.Copy the values from the Azure Portal and paste them into the following code cell.

Reviewer: We can use header 2 in places like this to add more structure

> 

Reviewer: I would at least put a comment to explain that - in a production scenario - we should store the credentials in Key Vault and use `mssparkutils`

```python

# Azure Open AI
aoai_service_name = ''
aoai_endpoint = f'https://{aoai_service_name}.openai.azure.com/'
aoai_key = ''
aoai_deployment_name_embeddings = "text-embedding-ada-002"
aoai_deployment_name_completions = "gpt-4"

# Azure AI Search
aisearch_name = ''
aisearch_index_name = 'wwireports'
aisearch_api_key = ''

# Azure AI Service
ai_services_key = ''
ai_services_location = ''
```
Upload the file you'd like to analyze to the `Files` folder in your Lakehouse.

Now that we have the basic configuration to Azure AI Services and Azure OpenAI, we can start loading the PDF documents into a Spark DataFrame using the `spark.read.format("binaryFile")`method provided by Apache Spark. Change the `document_path` variable to the path of the PDF document you'd like to analyze.

```python
# Import required pyspark libraries

from pyspark.sql.functions import udf
from pyspark.sql.types import StringType

> document_path = 'Files/your_filename.pdf' # Path to the PDF document 

Reviewer: We should provide a demo PDF file. We have some samples here: https://github.com/Azure-Samples/azure-openai-rag-workshop/tree/main/data

    .setOutputCol("chunks")
)

splitted_df = ps.transform(analyzed_df)
display(splitted_df)
```

Note that the chunks for each document are presented in a single row inside an array. In order to embed all the chunks in the following cells, we need to have each chunk in a separate row. To accomplish that, we first explode these arrays so there is only one chunk in each row, then filter the Spark DataFrame in order to only keep the path to the document and the chunk in a single row.

```python
# Each column contains many chunks for the saame document as a vector.
# Explode will distribute and replicate the content of a vecor across multple rows
from pyspark.sql.functions import explode, col

exploded_df = splitted_df.select("path", explode(col("chunks")).alias("chunk")).select(
    "path", "chunk"
)
display(exploded_df)
```
Next we'll generate the embeddings for each chunk. To do this we utilize both SynapseML and Azure OpenAI Service. By integrating the Azure OpenAI service with SynapseML, we can leverage the power of the Apache Spark distributed computing framework to process numerous prompts using the OpenAI service. 

```python
from synapse.ml.services import OpenAIEmbedding

> embedding = (

Reviewer: Here we can use the Fabric Azure AI Services deployment instead of the Azure OpenAI one

    OpenAIEmbedding()
    .setSubscriptionKey(aoai_key)
    .setDeploymentName(aoai_deployment_name_embeddings)
    .setCustomServiceName(aoai_service_name)
    .setTextCol("chunk")
    .setErrorCol("error")
    .setOutputCol("embeddings")
)

df_embeddings = embedding.transform(exploded_df)

display(df_embeddings)
```

This integration enables the SynapseML embedding client to generate embeddings in a distributed manner, enabling efficient processing of large volumes of data. If you're interested in applying large language models at a distributed scale using Azure OpenAI and Azure Synapse Analytics, you can refer to [this approach](https://microsoft.github.io/SynapseML/docs/Explore%20Algorithms/OpenAI/). 

For more detailed information on generating embeddings with Azure OpenAI, you can look [here]( https://learn.microsoft.com/azure/cognitive-services/openai/how-to/embeddings?tabs=console&WT.mc_id=data-114676-jndemenge).

> [Azure Cognitive Search](https://learn.microsoft.com/azure/search/search-what-is-azure-search?WT.mc_id=data-114676-jndemenge) offers a user-friendly interface for creating a vector database, as well as storing and retrieving data using vector search. If you're interested in learning more about vector search, you can look [here](https://github.com/Azure/cognitive-search-vector-pr/tree/main).

Reviewer: Is a header missing here?

payload = json.dumps(
  {
    "name": aisearch_index_name,
    "fields": [
      {"name": "id", "type": "Edm.String", "key": True, "filterable": True},  # Unique identifier for each document
      {
        "name": "content",
        "type": "Edm.String",
        "searchable": True,
        "retrievable": True,
      },  # Text content of the document
      {
        "name": "contentVector",
        "type": "Collection(Edm.Single)",
        "searchable": True,
        "retrievable": True,
        "dimensions": EMBEDDING_LENGTH,  # Length of the embedding vector
        "vectorSearchConfiguration": "vectorConfig",  # Configuration for vector search
      },  # Embedding vector representation of the document content
    ],
    "vectorSearch": {
      "algorithmConfigurations": [
        {
          "name": "vectorConfig",
          "kind": "hnsw",  # Algorithm used for vector search
        }
      ]
    },
  }
)
headers = {"Content-Type": "application/json", "api-key": aisearch_api_key}

response = requests.request("PUT", url, headers=headers, data=payload)
print(response.status_code)
```

> Next we need to use User Defined Function (UDF) through the udf() method in order to apply functions directly to the DataFrames and SQL databases in Python, without any need to individually register them.

Reviewer: Why mentioning SQL databases?

> If you had any issues while following this workshop, please let us know by [creating a new issue](https://github.com/microsoft/moaw/issues) on the github repository.
</div>

## Resources
To learn more about Retrieval Augmented Generation (RAG) using Azure Search an Azure OpenAI, refer to the following resources:

- [Retrieval Augmented Generation (RAG) in Azure AI Search](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/search/retrieval-augmented-generation-overview?WT.mc_id=data-114676-jndemenge)
- [Giving your AI memories](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/semantic-kernel/memories/overview?WT.mc_id=data-114676-jndemenge)

***Bonus:*** For more information on creating RAG applications with Microsoft Fabric’s Lakehouse Data and prompt flow in Azure Machine Learning Service, refer to this [resource](https://blog.fabric.microsoft.com/en-us/blog/using-microsoft-fabrics-lakehouse-data-and-prompt-flow-in-azure-machine-learning-service-to-create-rag-applications).

## Clean up resources

<div class="important" data-title="Important">

> After completing the workshop, remember to delete the Azure Resources you created to avoid incurring unnecessary costs!
</div>

> To delete the resources, navigate to the resource group you created earlier and click on the `Delete` button. Or alternatively you can run the following command in the Azure CLI.

Reviewer: This should be deleted. We don't use azd.

banner_url: assets/architecture.png
sections_title:
  - Welcome
  - Introduction
  - Environment Setup
  - Loading and Preprocessing PDF Documents
  - Generating Embeddings and Storing them in a Vector Store
  - Retrieving Relevant Documents and Answering Questions
  - Conclusion

wt_id: data-114676-jndemenge

---

# Welcome

In this workshop, we'll demonstrate how to develop a context-aware question answering framework for any form of a document using [OpenAI models](https://azure.microsoft.com/products/ai-services/openai-service), [SynapseML](https://microsoft.github.io/SynapseML/) and [Azure AI Services](https://azure.microsoft.com/products/cognitive-services/). The source of data for this workshop is a PDF document, however, the same framework can be easily extended to other document formats too.

## You'll learn how to: 

- Pre-Process PDF Documents using [Azure AI Document Intelligence](https://azure.microsoft.com/products/ai-services/ai-document-intelligence) in Azure AI Services.
- Perform text chunking using SynapseML.
- Generate embeddings for the chunks using SynapseML and  [Azure OpenAI Services](https://azure.microsoft.com/products/cognitive-services/openai-service).

> - Store the embeddings in a vector store using [Azure Cognitive Search](https://azure.microsoft.com/products/search).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Store the embeddings in a vector store using [Azure AI Search](https://azure.microsoft.com/products/search).
```

- Build a question answering pipeline.

## Pre-requisites

| | |
|----------------------|------------------------------------------------------|

> | Azure account        | [Get a free Azure account](https://azure.microsoft.com/free) |

Reviewer 2: Are free accounts definitely able to deploy these resources? We found that we had to make a lot of modifications for our OpenAI+Search sample to be compatible with free accounts.

> | Microsoft Fabric License | [Microsoft Fabric Licenses](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/fabric/enterprise/licenses?WT.mc_id=data-114676-jndemenge) |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| Microsoft Fabric License | [Microsoft Fabric Licenses](https://learn.microsoft.com/fabric/enterprise/licenses?WT.mc_id=data-114676-jndemenge) |
```

> | A workspace in Microsoft Fabric | [Create a Microsoft Fabric workspace](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-gb/fabric/data-warehouse/tutorial-create-workspace?WT.mc_id=data-114676-jndemenge) |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| A workspace in Microsoft Fabric | [Create a Microsoft Fabric workspace](https://learn.microsoft.com/fabric/data-warehouse/tutorial-create-workspace?WT.mc_id=data-114676-jndemenge) |
```

| Access to Azure OpenAI API | [Request access to Azure OpenAI](https://aka.ms/oaiapply) |
| A Web browser        | [Get Microsoft Edge](https://www.microsoft.com/edge) |

> | Python knowledge | [Python for beginners](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/training/paths/beginner-python/) |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| Python knowledge | [Python for beginners](https://learn.microsoft.com/training/paths/beginner-python/) |
```

---

# Introduction

Analyzing structured data has been an easy process for some time but the same cannot be said for unstructured data. Unstructured data, such as text, images, and videos, is more difficult to analyze and interpret. However, with the advent of advanced AI models, such as OpenAI's GPT-3 and GPT-4, it is now becoming easier to analyze and gain insights from unstructured data.

An example of such analysis is the ability to query a document for specific information using natural language which is achievable though a combination of information retrieval and language generation.

By leveraging the RAG (Retrieval-Augmented Generation) framework, you can create a powerful question-and-answering pipeline that uses a large language model (LLM) and you own data to generate responses. 

The architecture of such an application is as shown below:

> ![schema](assets/schema.png)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
![Architecture diagram connecting Azure OpenAI with Azure AI search and Document Intelligence](assets/schema.png)
```

To get an in-depth understanding of the RAG framework, refer to [this workshop](https://moaw.dev/workshop/gh:azure-samples/azure-openai-rag-workshop/base/docs/)

---

# Environment Setup
To continue with this workshop, you'll need to create a Lakehouse in your Microsoft Fabric workspace and deploy the necessary resources in your Azure account. We'll detail the steps to do this below.

## Create a Lakehouse

> To create a new Lakehouse in your Microsoft Fabric workspace, open the `Data Engineering workload` on the bottom left of the workspace and click on `Lakehouse`. Provide the name `rag_workshop` and click `Create`

Reviewer 2: I cant find "Data Engineering workload", but I was able to find a "New" button and I found Lakehouse when I selected "More options" on that.

Reviewer 2: ![Screenshot 2024-02-14 at 12 53 08 PM](https://github.com/microsoft/moaw/assets/297042/8f77c181-a4c6-4c47-80bf-e293d5fde5ec)
![Screenshot 2024-02-14 at 12 52 57 PM](https://github.com/microsoft/moaw/assets/297042/d8cfdec1-078c-4850-b109-150dab9926e5)

> ![lakehouse](assets/lakehouse.png)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
![Screenshot of New Lakehouse dialog in Synapse Data Engineering tab](assets/lakehouse.png)
```

> To learn more about Lakehouses in Microsoft Fabric, refer to [this resource](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/fabric/data-engineering/tutorial-build-lakehouse#create-a-lakehouse?WT.mc_id=data-114676-jndemenge)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To learn more about Lakehouses in Microsoft Fabric, refer to [this resource](https://learn.microsoft.com/fabric/data-engineering/tutorial-build-lakehouse#create-a-lakehouse?WT.mc_id=data-114676-jndemenge)
```

## Azure Setup

> To complete this workshop you'll need an Azure account. If you don't have one, you can create a [free account](https://azure.microsoft.com/en-gb/free/?WT.mc_id=data-0000-cxa) before you begin. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To complete this workshop you'll need an Azure account. If you don't have one, you can create a [free account](https://azure.microsoft.com/free/?WT.mc_id=data-0000-cxa) before you begin. 
```

> <div class="important" data-title="Important">

Reviewer 2: You can do this with markdown now, like

```
> [!IMPORTANT]
> Ensure that the subscription you are using has the permissions to create and manage resources.
```

> Ensure that the subscription you are using has the permissions to create and manage resources.
</div>

> Once you have the Account ready Right-click or `Ctrl + Click` on the button below to open the Azure Portal in a new tab and begin deployment of the necessary resources.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Once your Azure account is ready, right-click or `Ctrl + Click` on the button below to open the Azure Portal in a new tab and begin deployment of the necessary resources.
```

> [![Deploy to Azure](https://aka.ms/deploytoazurebutton)](https://portal.azure.com/#create/Microsoft.Template/uri/https%3A%2F%2Fraw.githubusercontent.com%2FMicrosoft%2Fmoaw%2Fmain%2Fworkshops%2Ffabric-e2e-rag%2Fassets%2Fmain.json)

Reviewer 2: I got two errors, noting here in case we want to document for users who may run into them:

* I already had a free tier search, and theres currently a limit of 1, so I just edited the template to be standard. Workshop followers can also delete their existing search service if not in use.
* I got this error about Responsible AI:
This subscription cannot create CognitiveServices until you agree to Responsible AI terms for this resource. You can agree to Responsible AI terms by creating a resource through the Azure Portal then trying again. For more detail go to https://aka.ms/csrainotice
I was surprised since I deploy OpenAI daily, but never created a multi-resource OpenAI, I guess. So I had to make one in the Portal in order to accept the Responsible AI checkbox.

This deploys the following resources:
1. Azure AI Search
2. Azure AI Services

---

# Loading and Preprocessing PDF Documents

> Now that we have all the necessary resources deployed we can now begin building the RAG application. This section covers the process of loading and preprocessing PDF documents using Document Intelligence in Azure AI Services. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Now that we have all the necessary resources deployed, we can begin building the RAG application. This section covers the process of loading and preprocessing PDF documents using Document Intelligence in Azure AI Services. 
```
